Title: ভাড়া ফ্ল্যাট vs. কেনা ফ্ল্যাট. লাভে থাকবেন না লোকসানে ...
Date: 2012-05-27 18:16
Author: kmonsoor
Category: configuration
Slug: %e0%a6%ad%e0%a6%be%e0%a6%a1%e0%a6%bc%e0%a6%be-%e0%a6%a8%e0%a6%be%e0%a6%95%e0%a6%bf-%e0%a6%95%e0%a7%87%e0%a6%a8%e0%a6%be-%e0%a6%ab%e0%a7%8d%e0%a6%b2%e0%a7%8d%e0%a6%af%e0%a6%be%e0%a6%9f
Status: draft

**Financial**:

A)     **Cash Gone.** You have to write a big fat check for a
downpayment. “But its an investment,” you might say to me. Historically
this isn’t true. Housing returned 0.4% per year from from 1890 to 2004.
And that’s just housing prices. It forgets all the other stuff I’m going
to mention below. Suffice to say, when you write that check, you’re
never going to see that money again. Because even when you sell the
house later you’re just going to take that money and put it into another
downpayment. So if you buy a \$400,000 home, just say goodbye to
\$100,000 that you worked hard for. You can put a little sign on the
front lawn: “\$100,000 R.I.P.”

B)      **Closing costs.** I forget what they were the last two times I
bought a house. But it was about another 2-3% out the window.  Lawyers,
title insurance, moving costs, antidepressant medicine. It adds up.
2-3%.

C)      **Maintenance**. No matter what, you’re going to fix things.
Lots of things. In the lifespan of your house, everything is going to
break. Thrice. Get down on your hands and knees and fix it! And then
open up your checkbook again. Spend some more money. I rent. My
dishwasher doesn’t work. I call the landlord and he fixes it. Or I buy a
new one and deduct it from my rent. And some guy from Sears comes and
installs it. I do nothing. The Sears repairman and my landlord work for
me.

D)     **Taxes**. There’s this myth that you can deduct mortgage payment
interest from your taxes. Whatever. That’s a microscopic dot on your tax
returns. Whats worse is the taxes you pay. So your kids can get a great
education. Whatever.

E)      **You’re trapped.** Lets spell out very clearly why the myth of
homeownership became religion in the United States. Its because
corporations didn’t want their employees to have many job choices. So
they encouraged them to own homes. So they can’t move away and get new
jobs. Job salaries is a function of supply and demand. If you can’t
move, then your supply of jobs  is low. You can’t argue the reverse,
since new adults are always competing with you.

F)      **Ugly**. Saying “my house is an investment” forgets the fact
that a house has all the qualities of the ugliest type of investment:

1.  Illiquidity. You can’t cash out whenever you want.
2.  High leverage. You have to borrow a lot of money in most cases.
3.  No diversification. For most people, a house is by far the largest
    part of their portfolio and greatly exceeds the 10% of net worth
    that any other investment should be.

**Personal reasons to not own a house**. [Also, [Follow me on
twitter. ](http://twitter.com/jaltucher)]

A)     **Trapped**, part 2. Some people like to have roots. But I like
things to change every once in awhile. Starting March, 2009 I was
renting an apartment directly across the street from the New York Stock
Exchange. It was fun. I’d look out the window and see Wall Street. How
exciting! Before that [I lived in The Chelsea Hotel with Chubb
Rock](http://www.jamesaltucher.com/2010/12/the-chelsea-hotel-chubb-rock-and-you-can-never-go-home-again/).
Last year we decided to relax and move a little north. Now I look out
the window and see the Hudson River. And its quiet and I can walk along
the river in the morning with no noise. It took us two weeks to pick a
place and move. No hassles. I like to live a hassle-free life.

​B)      **Walls**. You can’t change the walls when you rent. A lot of
people seem to want to tear down walls. Or paint them. Sometimes when
you rent you can’t do these things. Well, make sure you have a landlord
that lets you tear down walls. There must be some ancient evolutionary
tic that makes us want to tear down walls or put nails in them or paint
them. I don’t get it. I like the walls to stay right where they are.

C)      **Rent**. People will argue that the price of the mortgage,
maintenance taxes, etc is all baked into the price of rent. Sometimes
this is true. But usually not.

D)     **Psychology**. Look at your personal reasons for wanting to own.
Do you feel like you can’t accomplish something in life until you own a
house? Do you feel like its part of getting married and “Settling down”,
i.e. creating a nest for your future children? For you, is it a part of
becoming an adult. Is this what your parents taught you? Examine the
real reasons you want to own and make sure they are coming from a good
spot in your heart.

E)      **Your time. **Do you really want to spend all that time working
on your house? Is this where your time is best spent towards creating a
happy and fulfilled life for yourself?

F)      **Choices**. I feel when I rent I always have the choice to
leave. To live wherever  in the world I want whenever I want.  Adventure
becomes a possibility even if I never take advantage of it.

G)     **Stress**. For me (not for everyone) owning a home equals
stress. I saw what my parents went through at their worst moments owning
a home. I saw what I and others went through in the Internet bust when I
first owned a home. I saw what people went through in 2008. People were
killing themselves. I don’t like that sort of stress. [This is how I
deal with
stress.](http://www.jamesaltucher.com/2011/02/how-to-be-the-luckiest-guy-on-the-planet-in-4-easy-steps/)

H)     **Cash is king**. I like cash in the bank. I like having access
to it.  I don’t like it all tied up in one illiquid investment.  I want
to fill a bathtub with all the dollar bills I would’ve used as a
downpayment on a house. I want to bathe in that bathtub. I’m going to do
that later today in fact.

By the way, this is going to sound like a contradiction: but I think
housing is a great investment right now.  I think housing prices have
gone down far enough and I can list the reasons why housing as an
abstract investment concept is going to go higher from here. But I don’t
like to write about investing on this blog. Suffice to say there are
many stocks you can buy, with leverage if you want to take advantage of
the rise in housing. But I’m never going to buy a home again. And sit
there in the middle of the night thinking, “why the hell did I do this
to myself again.”
